DEVLEAGUE NOTES



MISC

Package managers install programs or groups of files.
Allows user to remove, update and (sometimes) create a package.

Linter is pattern matching according to JS syntax. Highlights errors in code.

A shell is part of an operating system that is the user interface that lets you talk to the Kernel. A kernel communicates to your systems hardware. The shell is the interface, Bash/Zshell are examples of this.



JAVASCRIPT

JS Runtime Environment
  Anywhere Javascript can run and be evaluated.
repl = "Read Evaluate Print Notes"
Running "node" in terminal creates a javascript runtime environment (a repl)

  DEBUGGING


  ARRAYS
  Lists of values, can access values by order of index. Can NOT access values by names of elements.
  One way to pass data around through an application.
  Lets programmes create lists that can be expanded.
  When making arrays use the var ___ = []; Not the constructor.
    MUTATOR METHODS - modify array
    pop - removes the last element of the array and returns that removed value.
    push - adds new elements to the end of the array, returns the new length of the array
    unshift - like push but adds new element on to the start of the array.
    shift - like pop, but for the start; Removes an element from the beginning of the array, returns the removed value
    reverse - reverses an array in the exact opposite order, no return value
    sort - sorts the contents of an array, no return value <SORTS BASED ON UNICODE VALUES BY DEFAULT>
    splice - can ADD OR REMOVE existing elements from an array, will return an array of the removed elements.



    ACCESSOR METHODS - do not modify array returns a 'representation' of the array
    concat - takes a new array(s) and merges it with the calling array, returns the new array as a merger of the two arrays. Original arrays remain unchanged.
    join - returns a new string with all elements seperated by a seperator (the stuff inside here upon call).
    slice - copies a range of elements from an array, returns a new array with defined range of elements. If no end is instructed slice will work till end of array. NEGATIVE end values returns n indexes from the END of the array.
    indexOf - finds the FIRST index value of an element in an array, returns a number of the index where the element was found.
      fromIndex - specifies a place to start the search
    lastindexOf - finds the LAST index value of an elementy in an array, returns the index value of where the element was LAST found.
    toString - copy a range of elements from an array, returns a new string with those elements. Original array remains unchanged.
    toLocaleString






GITHUB
git status - shows status
gst - same as git status
git diff - shows changes, Q quits this screen
gd - get diff shortcut
git add <FILE> - adds file to be committed
git commit -m "commit message" - commits file to github
git push - pushes commits to github
git clone <ssh directory> - clones directory to current working directory
git init - initializes a directory as a git repository in current working directory






TERMINAL

normal unprivileged users get $ <commands>
superusers get # <commands>
"sudo" makes you a super root user.
sudo <command> runs command as superuser.
CONTROL + C TO ABORT ABORT ABORT!
When typing pressing TAB shows options for completing the code. Pressing TAB twice lets you pick one of the possible auto completion options.

COMMANDS
node - creates javascript runtime environment
cd - changes directory
ls - lists available files
  -a - shows hidden files as well
man - opens the manual
mkdir - makes a directory
rmdir - removes a directory
touch - creates or updates a file
sudo - run as super root user
___ !$ - argument that references the last argument usedœ
